I bunderson like when I was looking at
the the Green Party when I was talking
to the leaders of the Green Party in
Canada I was having to say to them you
have to stop expecting people to
volunteer and get nothing in return you
know whether the the return is that you
actually get to see a bear or you
actually get a tour of the zoo after the
zoo is closed by an animal rights
activists who's you know who isn't just
showing you the zoo but he's actually
discussing the problems this is just one
example you know whatever kind of
activism is you're doing wow that's a
reward I did all this but I actually got
to learn about this and see the
elephants up close and whatever it is
there's some experience there's a
there's some reward that that provides
you know that makes the whole situation
dynamic and I do actually think those
rewards also they justify both the work
people do and they justify those
inequalities what's the difference
between a listserv and a magazine I know
magazines are now a thing of the past in
many ways well there's an editorial
process you know listserv email anybody
can write anything and for that reason
the quality of Correspondence may be
very low and it's probably not worth
anyone's time to read every every
contribution if people are contributing
to an editor of a magazine already
there's a relationship of inequality
there why should that why should they
take the effort to write a good quality
article and even to put up with it being
criticized by an editor and maybe have
changes made or revisions before it goes
to publication that effort is justified
by the palpable reward of actually
having a magazine at the end of the
process but whether it's spending time
with people you respect on a beach in
Thailand or it's having a physical on
paper magazine or it's being able to
participate again I don't think
participating in a street protest is
enough of a reward but for some people
it is you know meeting up with people
you like and being able to chant slogans
in Washington DC some people would go to
DC just for that just to hang out with
you and me and stand in front of the
White House and chant something that
makes no difference some people would do
that but for me that's not enough of a
palpable reward to me there has to be
something meaningful they see or do or
touch your marshington
so that's what say I really think you
need to structure that way because what
you are asking of people is not what
they're already doing it'sit's
ultimately it's something more it's
something above and beyond what they're
already doing on their own YouTube
channel etc so I think you're right and
I'm interested to know how you think
some kind of structure could be put into
place that provides what is an unequal
distribution of power but also a genuine
and transparent distribution of benefits
actually the easiest form of fundraising
to do is project specific so it's
exactly what Peter Singer says we
shouldn't be doing it is for example
when Aaron janeth wanted to save the
life of one zebra why did that raise so
much money so quickly why was it so
effective in terms of fundraising well
it wasn't effective in terms the final
outcomes for unrelated reasons everyone
knows exactly where the money is going
and everyone gets to see it it's visible
now by contrast what if I start a
foundation that is much more vaguely to
help the zebras where does the money go
well I want you to pay my salary so I
can be full time I want you to pay
administrative costs and then we're
going to do public education and
lobbying and you know there are zebras
here in Canada there are zebras in
Africa there are zebras and some zoos in
China we're going to go around do some
stuff this has gotten too vague already
right the the generalized concepts of
helping the Zebras is much harder to
justify it's much harder to be
transparent and accountable then helping
one zebra at one time now the great
thing about the Internet is that it
doesn't have to be an either/or is that
we can do both simultaneously the great
thing about the Internet is we could
easily have a foundation like petta just
to keep the same example or like Mothers
Against Drunk Driving my favorite
example we can have a Mothers Against
Drunk Driving type foundation for
veganism but then the same time at any
given moment we can say hey we want to
help this one zebra we want to do
something like this which is totally
transparent where exactly where the
money is going you're going to see et
cetera and the great thing is when you
do both each one increases the credible
of the other ah ba new gen were
wondering who was going to take the lead
there I was going to say to open you
know something seemingly irrelevant but
you know uh uh one of the things that
comes up again and get in my life when I
talked to other vegans because many
vegans glamorize this idea of digital
nomadism I often emphasize to people how
important it is to look at where you're
living and where you're living you know
has a fateful impact and what kind of
political difference you can make and
even what kind of political influence
your you're open to you know what you
what you hear from other is what you
read what you see what you participate
in and for me there was a time when in
Canada I considered moving to the
capital city just for that reason living
in Ottawa or rather crappy capital city
and doing very humble work as a security
guard just so I would have access to
those political institutions and what
have you for a couple of years you live
in Washington DC and although that may
be a kind of shallow and obvious thing
to say at the beginning I think that
actually does put you in a very
different position from most other
vegans the United States most other
vegans in the world yeah you get to see
the world from the perspective kinda
yeah I would say you you get to see the
world from the perspective of that
capital city part of yeah it's it's it's
definitely a unique perspective um and
and I didn't really realize it because
I've only been in Washington for a
little under a year but I didn't realize
it until I was here how much it really
is kind of it's exactly what people
imagine you're you're in Washington and
everything that means so in terms of
your day job you are already go ahead i
hope i hope it on to the big delay i'm
happy to talk but i was going to say in
terms of your day job you are connected
also to the world of ngos and lobbying
and specifically called you to some
extent obviously you can leave that
vague you don't need to mention it but
um you know you're not you're not
banished to the outskirts of DC digging
in a trend
your own professional life also kind of
keeps you engaged with the the world
down at the mall yeah yeah exactly um
that's right i'm in in in the vegas
rooms possible i'm a non-profit
environmental lawyer uh and so yes I
interact with NGOs and you know
journalists politico's all that right
well I'm used to talking to people who
basically feel powerless and feel like
they can't make a change in the world
and I mean a lot of people get excited
about my channel because the message i
have about politics is more optimistic
and more empowering than some other
vegans anis en recently reiterated his
belief that any involvement with
mainstream politics will result in you
getting quote a bullet in the head close
crown which he'll i wish i wish i could
say that was a I wish I guess I've
reflected his experience with the rough
and tumble of Australian Parliament or
something but it doesn't it's just it's
just idiocy you you've probably heard me
talk a whole bunch of times I have this
kind of limited experience with politics
than Canada at city hall at provincial
Parliament level and what have you but I
would think I mean you're now coming
online you're now trying to connect with
other vegans on the Internet I wonder do
you feel fundamentally more optimistic
about veganism in the in the public
sphere or do you think you're more
pessimistic given your experience on the
ground well I think if I can answer with
a non-answer it's kind of both depending
on kind of the feedback I get from the
people i talk to because my sense and
kind of my whole theory of the case and
the reason I reached out is because I
have a firm belief in a very real way
that there's an enormous amount of
social power political power economic
power in kind of the world of for lack
of a better word we'll call vegan
youtube and and I want to keep it myopic
at least for now and if there's a real
appetite bear for organizing
communicating collaborating gathering
information and jointly pursuing
discreet specific
goals I am beyond optimistic for that if
it turns out that the cases that
appetite isn't there and everyone is
very happy just being in their corner
and and you know doing their thing that
would i would find profoundly depressing
right well now i feel like i could talk
for an hour in response to what you just
say simple but i want to know how I I
don't want to take up too much of your
time I don't have anything particular
planned for the evening so so I'm gonna
need you to cut me off if you have stuff
going on but yeah I could I could also
go on for well uh just to start with
there you know I think for me one of the
contrasting veganism and other forms of
ecological activism advocacy lobbying
because I think you and I both we have
other other interests in addition to
veganism and perhaps prior to veganism
you know the crucial stumbling block
most of the time with the other
ecological causes I was involved in was
access to information like both for me
to access information and for me to get
the information to members of the public
who might care to give you an example
like in Toronto we did have a Freedom of
Information Act but in order to get a
government document a government report
I think technically you needed to have
the complete title complete and correct
legal title of the report and they could
make a title very long of course you
know there were the report on soil
conditions having been examined by and
if the title was not correct you
couldn't get the document so you know
that was 11 ish shows involved with was
actually soil contamination in part of
the city that was both populated and
where they were doing new construction
and where the soil was directly
contaminating our drinking water you
know when it rained basically we flow
through and take the heavy metals they
were just mention is not a normal it was
what you call a brown site or a toxic
toxic disaster said what if I said
wasn't wasn't normal soil pollution um
anyway so you know how do you actually
get that information out of a government
that is understandably secretive like I
honestly I don't blame them for being
secretive about something like that and
then how do you get it to any segment of
the public who cares and then how do you
mobilize any kind of
activity let's not even say activism any
kind of human interest as incredibly
difficult the press doesn't give a damn
but nobody just say the car with the
contrast boy but just finish the
contrast is with veganism I feel like
everybody already has all the
information they need that to me is the
contrast is that when dealing with
veganism like I don't need to show you a
slaughterhouse video or you know I can
but it doesn't really help anything it's
interesting because this is a political
voice where we start with almost
everyone involved already has the
information they need even the people
who disagree with us you know people who
are not vegan but are vaguely aware oh
yeah you know factory farming is kind of
messed up so it is anyway let that's my
opening comment to you is to me that's a
very fundamentally different horizon
short term and long term for a vegan
activism and lobbying well if I can
guess so oh i just i heard that echo
again but um I think it's gone anyway um
one of the things that I think is
actually a real problem within a lot of
the at least digital vegan activism that
I've been exposed to is um there's kind
of this this positioning where we like
to talk about it as if you know everyone
in like the public at large kind of
knows all of the information that we
know of and I mean really knows it to
the degree whether it's you know I mean
there are people who whether it's the
protein myth a lot of people don't know
about um just basic issues of ecology
environmental damage in the meat
industry and there are people who
genuinely if you talk to them they kind
of their gut reaction is olya animals
they're automatons they whether it's
religious kind of they don't have souls
or they just don't matter because
they're stupid and so I don't empathize
with them there are people that feel
that way and I think the problem is a
lot of vegans will say there are more
they'll jump right there and what that
does is that doesn't acknowledge that
there are innumerable social cultural
political economic institutions that are
what I think should be the target of our
activism that when we talk about I mean
I think the best contra are the best
example of this is feminism feminist say
dismantle the patriarchy they
don't say you know vomit or exploded
it's they understand it's a bunch of
different cross-sectional individual
issues and you have to attack them each
so like when we say oh this person's
immoral because they eat meat well we're
not talking about poverty we're not
talking about the fact that this person
has no time to think about their food
choices they live in a food desert and
the government is subsidizing the meat
that they eat so I think the problem
with a lot of our activism is that we we
aren't choosing the right targets
because we feel so strongly on on this
moral issue or and I say moral including
just kind of the correctness of it that
we don't have this idea of tolerating
that like other people aren't there but
it's not just their fault their reasons
they're not there and we have to target
those reasons well look I think there
are two separate issues here that we're
conflating we can we can talk about both
one is public education / outreach and
by definition that's talking to people
who are not already vegan or who don't
already agree with us and you know not
only do I sympathize with that and think
it's it's important but you know also
probably my own background in in museum
work probably gives me a slightly
different perspective on that because
the vast majority of musial G is
propaganda especially where you are I've
been to some museum exhibits in
Washington DC where like I remember was
just straight up here's an excuse for
why Bill Clinton bombed the Sudan it was
hilarious like wow thank you for this
kid completely objective piece oh you
know written by the written by though
the White House written by the anyway
who knows maybe written by the CIA
whatever it they don't just come from
the universe someone has to write them
and approve them and decide them like
this yeah no I mean I'm not complain but
even even when I sympathize with the
message you know with a sort of Human
Rights Museum or Holocaust Museum those
types of museums are often kind of
eighty percent propaganda even if even
if I'm pro-human rights I can i combine
is that so that that part of my
background gives me a slightly different
perspective on that as well as my own
direct activism or what
you but that's public education outreach
the other question it's what you asked
about already first is the question of
what use can we make of the vegans we've
already got and YouTube in the internet
plays a kind of unique and dynamic role
in that in 2016 as never before you
already asked this questions is going to
answer me you were asking vaguely is it
possible is there an appetite to do more
to get organized amongst the vegans for
online my experience is yes but my
experiences with the people who are not
intimidated by me all kinds of people
will never talk to me just because they
find me intimidating but the people who
talked to me including the people who
literally have bikini videos like where
you wouldn't think they're they're
hungry for political change they are
hungry for real activism political
changes that's why they talked but me
that's why they talked to me so like to
give examples that I don't think they'd
be ashamed to have me mentioned I was
very surprised how political and
politically ambitious the light twins
are the light twins are guys who you
know take off their shirts a lot they're
amateur bodybuilders and shout to them
as well because of their interviews with
you right they seem to be really like oh
we have to we have to organize we got to
get to you wait I think that's I think
that's the first time that's the first
time anyone saw that side of their
character I mean who knew i didn't i
didn't know that about them i would have
never guessed and you obviously we
talked offline a bit and you know Jason
Fazzino is another one he's a
bodybuilder I was just I was just
looking one of his videos that's
literally him with some girls in bikinis
on the beach I would have never guessed
about the guy that he really is is
hungry for that political change beyond
that and another person who's definitely
gonna hear this podcast member my
patreon group Amy the vegan transition I
mean her channel she is very very few
viewers but she said a big response from
other other vegans on YouTube precisely
because they have that appetite what
she's doing is real activism also real
research you know she's actually
visiting farms and interviewing farmers
so the research the research aspect of
activism but she's also doing real
active and because they say in her case
they're not seeking Fame they're not
going to increase their they're at their
audience by talking to her that's really
purely you know an interest in having
three organisms so that that is out
there and for me the contrast is I don't
I don't think I've mentioned this before
on youtube or on patreon but you know
the contrast is when I try to talk to
career academics just recently I wrote
to a university professor one of a very
few his name is a professor will Kim
Luca Kim Luca is very difficult to spell
and I'm not going to spell it but I can
i can give you a link later Kim Luca is
probably one of two or three professors
in all of the United States and Canada
in all of North America who are devoted
to veganism vegan politics right like I
mean I don't know maybe maybe you know a
couple more I can I can think off hand
up to maybe there were three in total
you know it's just natural western acne
is not going to pay the salary for a
whole lot of people to sit around talk
about vegan politics I wrote him I'd be
happy to show you the email I sent up
the email i send it was very you know
sympathetic and straightforward said
look I know what it's like to deliver
papers at academic conferences I know
you put in so much work and maybe there
are only 15 or 20 people there who
really care who are really the audience
here that paper I would love to talk to
you you know via Skype or whatever you
want you know whatever method you want
and put you on my youtube channel I can
guarantee you a minimum of two thousand
people who really care about these
issues and you really want to make a
difference who are really aspiring vegan
activists will hear you know what you
have to say about vegan politics become
a channel you know possibly five
thousand what have you those are huge
numbers compared to an academic
conference I but I have never once had
cooperation from an academic within
veganism or ecology or animal rights
more broadly I have never once never
once had cooperation from someone who is
a member of a non-digital a vegan
organization not even direct action
everywhere DXE direct action everywhere
they're about their about forty-nine
percent on the internet anyway they
emphasize the 51% they do in the real
world which is fine that's not a
complaint nobody i mean when i was
living in victoria i couldn't get anyone
to even talk to me by email from direct
action everywhere in vancouver or what
have you so that's the other thing is
the people on youtube
they may be shallow or they may seem
shallow like you know I don't know guys
like Jason Fazzino and the light twins
it's like I don't think any of their
fans had any idea who they really were
or you know what how they felt on those
that that side of the game anyway so
there their content may seem shallow or
they may really be shallow but those
seem to be the people the people who are
sharing their lives on the internet are
the people who are at least prepared to
talk to you and I think in many cases
they are prepared to get behind a real
activism a real organization
recommendation I think sorry I realized
two been talking for a very long time
continuously but if you want a simple
litmus test you can ask yourself this
question all of these people whether
it's me or vegan gains just use we're
both Canadian two examples wouldn't we
be happier if we would continue doing
exactly the same thing we're already
doing but we also had a political
organization let's just say like a
perfect version of petta like it's
pettah but it's actually vegan you know
we kind of it's better without this
[ __ ] without this problem this
problem if you just try to reinvent
pedda having learned from the
experiences of the past and being
obviously pettah is not perfect or
something of course someone like vegan
gains or someone like myself would at a
minimum be delighted to keep doing what
we already are doing but to also attend
conferences by support and be involved
in you know whether it's the public
education and outreach side or direct
political lobbying or you know there
would be a foundation of that kind I
think many many many of these people
would be happy to bolt that on to that
in addition to what they're now doing
and you know it's not it's not that much
time so it's not that much time for most
people for a small number of people
actually live in Washington DC it would
be your full-time job of course yeah but
so that's that's first off really
inspiring um but i guess so i guess that
i don't have a firm sense of because as
you know i don't i'm not a youtuber I'm
not involved in this world other than as
a consumer of it um and as you're
extremely aware of there's been this
very recent like hyper drama um
a certain group of vegan youtubers but
but kind of in the aftermath of that or
to the side of that um what is your
experience like in terms of how
individuals in this world communicate
between it amongst each other and the
reason I kind of asked that is because I
was curious about like how big is vegan
YouTube actually like help how many
channels are there how many subscribers
are there and so I actually counted it
up and and i'll do a um a screen share
if i can how do i do that well ok
whatever you want to but just cuz i'm
recording this i don't want to don't
have gaps of silence we feel it I don't
um look you know I just recorded an hour
and a half long conversation with the
vegan laughs young woman in Scotland I
that should be uploaded within the next
few hours I do recommend you listen to
that on this issue you're just asking
about you know it is very sad in some
ways the level of hostility and
infighting would have you but there's
another sense in which it's not sad and
you shouldn't let it impair oh sure you
shouldn't let it click close off what
you think of as the possibilities for
what the digital vegans can do you
shouldn't let it limit your vision of
the future and I'll give you a very
simple comparison hip-hop music rap
music if you said to someone forty years
ago look you know rap music it's got
potential but it can never really go
mainstream it can never really be come a
gold album selling platinum-selling you
can never become a huge phenomenon
culturally because all these rappers
they all criticize each other they all
insult each other you know they all they
all have drama with each other they all
have comedy each other this is never
going to grow now it would actually
quite understandable why someone would
think that at the beginning of hip-hop
hip-hop was so different from jazz music
that way jazz music at least everyone
pretended to be played probably jazz
musicians all hated each other anyway
but you know at every stage of the
history of rap music these rappers have
been insulting each other and sleeping
with each other's girlfriends and
sometimes even shooting and stabbing
each other and yet the genre grew and
grew and grew and became within my
lifetime it really became the most Dom
most influential genre of music now
obviously that that can't last forever
you know it doesn't last forever for
anything I mean you know probably within
my lifetime it'll fade away or become
become minor but I just say that's for
someone of my age that's what I witness
there was there was a time when wearing
hip-hop clothing was both very rare and
really frowned upon and now you know
whatever streets of Toronto any major
city people of all ages are wearing what
used to be distinctive hip-hop you know
60 year old people as well as as well as
teenagers and it's just invisible it's
become so mainstream so you know the the
drama and the infighting you can view it
as an obstacle to progress but maybe
that is just a feature of the genre
maybe that's an element of what we're
doing in veganism in the same sense that
it's just a defining feature of of rap
and hip-hop music that makes a lot of
sense um but but so I guess has anyone
ever done this or really looked at it
that's like this embarrassing um like
how big vegan YouTube really is because
this is what I was able to find can you
see my screen I'll check but you no
answer that question there's there's how
okay yeah okay well so I do see your
screen well okay um I was just gonna say
you know uh that the size of the market
is one thing and then the size of people
who could be potentially engaged in
political activism is another so you
know my audience realistically right now
about 2,000 people really care about my
channel are really passionate about it
and I would say five thousand people are
interested you know 20 to a lesser
extent i do not think my audience is
actually 10,000 people i have 10,000
subscribers but i would say 5,000
audience 2000 who are really interested
I mean within my time on on the internet
I think the single most successful
channel I don't know if she's done your
your list here is a cheap lazy vegan she
just grew right so right so she has a
huge market but who watches her stuff
amino she's posting videos of I went to
the supermarket
today this is what I bought I'm not
hating on that or or it doesn't profit
us anything to to hate on that but um
you know a very small percentage of
those people would be interested in this
conversation you and I are having or
could be possibly mobilized for some
kind of foundation some kind of direct
political activism so that's all let's
say is you know I mean my channel is so
explicitly political that the stat for
how many people are watching me is is
significant obviously I'm not everyone's
cup of tea but you can't look at for
example unnatural vegan a very small
percentage of her viewers would be open
to this this political approach you know
now the other thing this I did just say
this in my conversation with vegan lass
which again you can hear later today
whenever it finishes uploading but you
know one of the things I pointed up to
her it's it's fine it's natural for us
like including yourself you may well
complain that some of these discussions
about veganism are boring or you've
heard them before these are you haven't
seen nobody say like you know anyone who
watches my channel regularly you can say
you know oh god this is kind of the same
thing again and again um think about the
situation for someone who is 15 years
old and is currently a fan of the vegan
cheetah because his viewership is
remarkably young at cec on you now and
what have you you know obviously there
are middle aged people like me also it
is actually a very powerful and very
positive thing that those people that
that generation is growing up finding
what I have to say normal and even
boring that's a huge paradigm shift
because what I have to say to old it to
older people and you see them freaking
out on my channel all the time older
people find what I have to say shocking
and edgy and new and of course it
needn't be you know that just reflects
the contrast between what I'm talking
about and what's been normal within the
last 10 years but what I have to say is
shocking of course it may be shocking to
meet eaters but it's shocking even
within veganism and yet on YouTube we
are in effect raising a new generation
who either through a higher level of
sophistication or just to a higher level
of familiarity will already know about
all those arguments
all those differences of opinions in
veganism and will be comfortable with
them moving forward so I think that is a
very powerful thing it is easy to be
cynical about the the drama aspect or
the kind of muckraking aspect or what
have you but what is the effect on the
young audience coming up through that I
think five years from now those are
going to be people who really do
understand in a very down-to-earth
pragmatic way what needs to be done how
to do it and who will be able to avoid
the pitfalls that in other situations
have torn you know ecological activist
organizations apart because in the past
you really would like the type of stuff
I talk about my channel you'd managed to
get some people together who just barely
agree about saving some Apes from a lab
or what have you but then the minute
these other political issues come up or
ethical and vegan issues come up they're
showing each other down and and members
are quitting or factions are forming and
they're tearing the organization apart
so I do think that in some ways we're
rehearsing for the future we're
practicing discussing and becoming
comfortable with addressing the most
divisive issue that you know I can boast
I do that on my channel but I do
actually think even a guy like vegan
cheetah does that I do think he does I
think he prepares his audience for that
and so I'm very interested like in the
future if I go to an animal rights
conference or if you organize some event
in Washington DC and I go there five
years from now i would meet people who
would say to me I grew up on your
YouTube channel you know like I've been
watching your youtube channel for five
years and they may find it boring and
that's a wonderful thing you know like
it's a great thing I think there's a
future where the stuff I've talked about
on my youtube channel up till now has
become well known and normal enough that
those are no longer edgy and shocking
issues yeah that's I guess that's true I
never really thought about it as an
intergenerational issue and that's an
extremely important point I want to if
it's okay kind of tack more towards a
strict mechanics kind of discussion sure
and by that I mean
what I wanted to avoid at all costs is
kind of explaining what my like most
grandiose ambition would be um in too
much detail because that's kind of a
poison the well thing and and I imagine
that the i think it's 212 vegan
youtubers identified with over a
thousand subscribers um you know they
all of their own interests for a lot of
people this is their primary or one of
their main sources of income and and and
those those interests are valid um but i
guess on a mechanistic level it would be
really difficult for someone loaded 44
like the light twins for example who
have i think something like 60 some odd
thousand subscribers to individually run
political activism from their channel
alone but when you think about the
numbers of people you actually need to
get organized to actually make real
change i mean i don't know i'm mostly
familiar with obviously domestic
American politics um and I don't know if
you've been following all the like AG
gag legislation that's been going on
safe I stayed here yeah I actually I've
read a lot about that when my bought
might when my daughter was just born I
had a lot of time to read them but I
haven't so up about three years out of
date on that but I read about a pack
then yeah it's all the same stuff you'd
expect basically state legislatures kind
of in the quiet of night passing passing
laws preventing people from filming in
slaughterhouses um but the truth is in
terms of I mean even on a state level
state like Indiana or Iowa which has 10
10 million or fewer people the light
twins for example probably don't have
that many individual subscribers in
Indiana but among this group of 212
individuals with nine million 345 ish
thousand subscribers and I'm aware
obviously that's not fully
intellectually honest because there's
overlap and a lot of those are inactive
but right if that network of individuals
could be activated to deliver discrete
messages and say hey you know throw you
know for example this thing is happening
in Indiana if you live there you know
call your representative here's a number
we've provided you now here's a sample
script or an email or tweet here's the
number you need to call here's the tool
that shows you who you were
representative is that's the kind of
action that I think well that I did I oh
yeah yeah I just say I mean you know i
was just talking I guess two weeks ago
or something I was talking to both vegan
cheetah and Jason Posey know about
organizing a festival or a conference or
an event you know obviously in some ways
to replace what durianrider and freely
did but obviously because I'm the one
doing the talking obviously the level of
political organization is much much
higher it's much more explicitly kind of
a political science sort of thing and
you know we were talking about it it's
like well Virginia Beach that exists and
that's near where you know the cheetah
lives cheetahs moving to Virginia Beach
and Virginia Beach amazingly has the
American headquarters for pedicle
treatment of animals there'll be one way
to do it do you try to build bridges
from do you try to you know get people
attending from pettah try to get maybe
pursue even formal cooperation features
better do you go to some beach in
Florida you know Miami or something do
you make that the event you know another
very real issue would be well what about
Washington DC you know what about
somewhere that matters politically for
that reason again disproportionately the
the youtubers I've been talking to our
Canadian and you know vegan gains alone
obviously as a huge pole and a huge
following and so on within Canada you
know so on that level I mean I always
talk about constituency building I did
not expect my channel to have a
significant number of viewers until I
started going to places like London
England and meeting people face-to-face
and shaking their hands I've been
relatively fortunate by my own standards
now it's possible if I did that if I
went to London because your London has a
huge vegan scene so does Berlin
incidentally if I went to places like
London Berlin probably I would both
expand my audience and deepen the level
of trust with my audience but i would
have never attempted to do a fundraiser
without doing that first but doing the
constituency building of seeing people
face to face shaking their hands
and really expressing to people you know
if you donate your money to me it's
going to be used for exactly what I
promised you know you sir that's really
old-fashioned political science whether
it's Washington DC or London or what
have you and I do think the success of
some of the other vegan youtubers even
if it was short-lived was because of
that because that face-to-face
conference attending constituency
building and even if the conference was
[ __ ] it was just the fact that they
did meet people they did participate
with people you know pressing the flesh
so to speak face-to-face so I know
that's not your your final ambition or
what have you but there is definitely
also a desire to make events of that
kind happen there's a desire of people
who are online to get offline and do
something meaningful in the real world
face-to-face now I I've always said I
don't believe in reproducing the defects
of an academic conference and or at
academic you know presenting an academic
paper academic essay and again this
comes back science said earlier I
actually do feel like most of the
information when we're talking about
within veganism we're not talking about
public outreach public education that
most of these people already have the
information they need so if you were to
call together let's say 50 let's just
say it's 50 youtubers 50 digital vegans
on YouTube the last the last thing they
need is an academic lecture on water
pollution or slaughterhouse footage they
don't need that you know they know
enough you know they want to do
something the question is you know what
do we do now obviously the answer for me
isn't putting on a bikini and going
swimming like that can be part of it no
like we can we can have an event where
you know whatever if people want to get
drunk if you want to go swimming that's
fine that can be one one aspect what you
do plenty of academic conferences people
do that stuff also but you know
especially at step one especially if
it's if it's the first meeting where you
are really building mutual trust your
building constituency that to me is is
we're thinking about and I don't mean in
the long term future I mean it's worth
thinking about within the next 12 months
yeah that that I think that that
probably is among the most important
first steps just the ID
building a community of people who add I
mean youyou rail about this all the time
that it needs to actually be a community
of people not a loose bunch of you know
lone wolves roaming around um but one of
the things that and if I can it feels
very uncomfortable to voice the
criticism because since i'm not on
youtube it feels like i'm out of place
um go ahead I'm hard to offend I'm not
gonna cry it's all right no no it's
actually it wouldn't be a criticism of
you as much as kind of what YouTube can
do because I think that there are three
main things that being on on YouTube as
a vegan activist can do obviously you
can convert people from not being vegan
into being vegan you can also help
motivate people to prevent i guess i
don't recall the loss or drop out of
veganism because there's whatever
percentage of people end up failing to
continue a vegan lifestyle after X
number of months um but the third thing
you could do or one could do is to
really empower your viewers and to tell
them you know you are my I don't say
army because I'm not trying to make that
metaphor but you're a group of people
connected by the fact that you're my
viewers here are concrete things you can
do because i think i've noticed at least
in my life you're very comfortable or
after the first I don't know year 18
months two years after you go vegan and
then you realize that not having an
impact is exactly that it's the same way
I think I'm plagiarizing this from Steve
breast is you know if you aren't a
pedophile you're not contributing to end
paedophilia which is a crude metaphor
but it's true and I think that there is
a real hunger just among among the group
of people watching these videos and the
people producing them to kind of get to
that third stage of okay this isn't just
lifestyle activism where I'm convincing
you that you should adopt my lifestyle
I'm also
telling you here's the thing you can do
this is a concrete task you can take
that will achieve a real victory in the
world and advance our movement towards
us ultimate goals well look you know I
probably would be if other things in my
life weren't such a disaster i would be
involved in much more locally rooted
activism probably linked to specific
wild species if it had worked out for me
in first nations i was a student of
korean a jib way i was involved with
indigenous peoples language politics
cetera if that had worked out i can very
easily imagine a parallel universe where
I was not looking at a conference in
Virginia Beach and I was not looking at
a conference in Washington DC or I was
looking at organizing an annual event
unlike the bike festival which may be
was the vegan bear festival because if I
was out in that country side and that
could be seven people coming because you
know who can afford to buy the airplane
ticket but we tried to motivate a group
of vegans to come every year and where
you actually bring them out and show
them the bear habitat of the ecological
issues the struggles you're having why
you're trying to raise funds and of
course you film it and put it on the
internet say okay here are the problems
with these bears or with this you know
this struggle to to give these wild
animals a decent life I can completely
imagine another life of that kind which
again would be meaningful and rewarding
for the people involved in it which
would help some number of animals which
would help support well promote veganism
as a concept in some way but you know
ultimately is also kind of isolated and
kind of pure ech okay kind of pointless
even though I mean I've many times
talked about in my channel that in some
ways the best the best way for your own
life is to organize around one group of
dolphins or one group of their something
very tangible something rooted in one
place and we're indeed you are dealing
with one local government and not with a
global question now however the life I
am living that I'm likely to continue to
lead pushes me towards instead these
much more global international
cosmopolitan and for that reason
abstract questions of vegan
which I'm very apprehensive of you know
like if we had a conference in
washington d.c london england or berlin
germany we could get people from all
over the world but then they can't
really cooperate and do much of anything
you know i can put a footnote there yes
there are some things we can do there
are some things that puzzle but you know
like someone I'm interested in working
with there's this other youtuber called
mod vegan she talks a lot within my
patreon group incidentally objectively a
very good-looking woman but she is not
selling a diet book unlike freely or
what um you know mod vegan if I would
I'd say to you why am I excited to meet
someone like that she's a Canadian
citizen she is completely sane or I mean
if she's insane she's managing to
conceal it on YouTube very well and I
look at her and I think even if I
disagree with this woman about a bunch
of issues than veganism this is someone
who could actually be co-signing who
could be signing legal documents with me
to create a foundation within Canada and
that is what you need within Canada you
need five normally ten people who can
actually have joint legal
responsibilities literally signing on
the dotted line for a foundation to
exist that is step one before we can do
any kind of fundraising any kind of
charity work even any kind of public
education or outreach even if you want
to give like to give an example even if
you want to give lectures in schools you
want to go around to schools doing
education on veganism or animal rights
or related issues that it's absolutely
step one is having those five or ten
people who you trust enough to be able
to write checks from the same bank
account the bank account where you
collect donations if that's actually
quite a high level of trust now I don't
I've actually I've never even talked to
up via Skype with mod vegan it is full
disclosure we've actually never never
spoken by telephone but my shallow
impression is I look at her YouTube
channel and I committee over there I
think oh wow you know this is someone I
can I can work with and I mean the
problem is the the demi-monde I've been
kind of forced into even though in some
ways of course it's more it is it's more
glamour essex more exciting i have a
bigger audience than if I were humbly
working with First Nations in one
village in one place or working with one
group of bears or one group of dolphins
what I'm doing now has this
of global element to it that's very
enticing for many people but the problem
is I could show up at a conference and
there isn't even one person there like
Maude vegan there isn't one person where
there's the potential you know whether
it's legally jurisdictionally or in
terms of their personality or what have
you to get that kind of boring work done
and again that's not that's not your end
goal we're talking about that's step one
you know I don't have five people I can
form a legal foundation with within
Canada and some of my fellow vegans even
if I like them some of them I have very
very paternalistic feelings towards you
know I feel in a kind of fatherly way I
kind of love for some of my fellow
vegans on on YouTube but some of them
are crazy you know or some of them are
drug addicts or some of them of other
problems where they they really can't
play that role so yeah this is a this is
an underlying tension and I mention it
for a totally pragmatic set of reasons
because I think it comes up in the
question of how and where you organize
what kind of event there's natural
obviously you're not this kind of guy
but most people if they were organizing
an event all they'd care about is
basically having the biggest celebrities
there but the biggest celebrities are
not useful to me someone like mod vegan
who has a hundred viewers or something
sorry I forgot maybe she has 200 now or
300 but to me what's exciting is the
real prospect for political organization
and I don't even know I don't really
know if I can do that within Canada or
within the next few years if my home
will be in some other country somewhere
else in the world there's also a
fundamental problem that I face and that
any so-called digital Nomad is facing so
that's interesting because I think I
think we may have um I don't say talk
past each other but my I don't say my
ask I'm not that arrogant but my the way
I'm looking at it is kind of a step back
from that which is I don't expect part
of the the obvious challenge about
organizing among the online digital
vegan activist community is the fact
that it's so spread out I mean because
of a whole raw till 4 thing there's a
disproportionate number of people from
Australia and New Zealand and and even
beyond that there's just it's diffuse
because that's the nature of the
internet and all that and my my thought
isn't that that all these individuals
should physically get into one location
I mean that would be fantastic and
actually I think that would be a really
productive use of a lot of people's time
but that just the basics of coordinating
I mean I think it's really easy to
imagine for example a literally at 212
or 300 however many people however
however deep you wanted to go literally
a listserv of people where it's just
anyone can email anyone and then you
know committees bait essentially a
parliament there are some people who are
extremely interested in environmental
issues related to livestock and animal
agriculture they really they're they're
eating oreos they don't give it you know
they don't care if they're fat but
that's that's what motivates them those
people should be you know talking in a
facebook group or in on a on a listserv
and then there are some people who are
just really into the nutritional aspect
of it and I'm sure they care about other
things but they're just like you know
I'm concerned about diabetes and I want
you to look good and I want to show you
how good I look in a bikini or a bathing
suit or whatever and those people should
be in a room and then or like a digital
room um and then I understand a listserv
of 200-300 people is enormous but then
individuals from each of those
communities can communicate essentially
in the basic structure of any Parliament
or business or foundation or any
organization whatsoever and having that
kind of communication and then being
able to share information if you say
okay my viewers are disproportionately
from Canada your viewers are
disproportionately from the United
States and there's this issue in Canada
or the decision in the United States I'm
going to bring this to your attention
but now you can talk about it and that
that I think it's a really big ask to
ask individual youtubers in their in
their towns to go find people who are
close to them but it's that if we can
connect all of these people who are
line then we can collect information
both about their viewership we can
collect information about their physical
locations we can kind of map out what
the full strength of this network is and
then the people on the ground all right
I actually okay i I just I just I
disagree with you partly based on my
experience with ecologic items with
green parties that are partly more more
practically than than theoretically but
I can state this in a very theoretical
way I'd encourage I'd encourage you to
reconcile this may sound very grim and
and merely you know pecuniary but it's
it's not what's the difference between a
listserv and a magazine I know magazines
are now a thing of the past in many ways
well there's an editorial process you
know listserv email anybody can write
anything and for that reason the quality
of Correspondence may be very low and
it's probably not worth anyone's time to
read every every contribution if people
are contributing to an editor of a
magazine already there's a relationship
of inequality there why should they why
should they take the effort to write a
good quality article and even to put up
with it being criticized by an editor
and maybe have changes made or revisions
before it goes to publication that
effort is justified by the palpable
reward of actually having a magazine at
the end of the process right so I'm
giving this obviously as a first set up
for the the pattern I'm talking about in
political organization on a small scale
on a medium scale of this kind what are
the actual rewards you can provide that
incentivize people to do something more
than pursue sex money and fame on
youtube or just you know indulge in
their own their own lifestyle and what
have you now you know the rato for
bikefest as as bad as it was and if ways
fruit festival in Chiang Mai as much to
my criticize it that did provide a
reward that really incentivize people to
make extraordinary sacrifices to be
there including very real
economic sacrifices flying to Thailand
is a real cost spending a month in
Thailand is a huge cost thinking a month
off work this is a long period of time
etc but people were going to do it and
you know you could make a list of what
were the palpable rewards that were
there at the other end now you know
again like when I was looking at the the
Green Party when I was talking to the
leaders of the Green Party in Canada I
was having to say to them you have to
stop expecting people to volunteer and
get nothing in return you know whether
the the return is that you actually get
to see a bear or you actually get a tour
of the zoo after the zoo is closed by an
animal rights activists who's you know
who isn't just showing you the zoo but
he's actually discussing the problems
this is just one example you know
whatever kind of activism is you're
doing wow that's a reward I did all this
but I actually got to learn about this
and see the elephants up close and
whatever it is there's some experience
there's a there's some reward that that
provides you know that makes the whole
situation dynamic and I do actually
think those rewards also they justify
both the work people do and they justify
those inequalities in the same way that
there's inevitably one editor who
organizes something you know God knows
even a festival or a conference is not
egalitarian in the way that a lot of
emails is so you know for me this this
is a real question with pettah with
people for the ethical treatment of
animals I can tell you right now what
the reward is it's money you have no
idea what a galvanizing effect on the
human mind money has and I think Pettis
still to this day they may be the only
animal rights organization that's paying
a significant number of people a salary
of age but those people pardon me those
people it's not even the total number of
people may not be that great making
money but there's a big turnover for
those jobs people have that kind of job
for one year or six months rarely five
years but the whole network of petta
global network is galvanized by the fact
that they pay salaries to people
I can't imagine being that successful
you know definitely not within the next
ten years having a foundation that I
should pay salaries but whether it's
spending time with people you respect on
a beach in Thailand or it's having a
physical on paper magazine or it's being
able to participate again I don't think
participating in a street protest is
enough of a reward but for some people
it is you know meeting up with people
you like and being able to chants
slogans in Washington DC some people
would go to DC just for that just to
hang out with you and me and stand in
front of the White House and chance
something that makes no difference some
people would do that but for me that's
not enough of a palpable reward to me
there has to be something meaningful
they see or do or touch in Washington DC
so that's what's say I really think you
need to structure that way because what
you are asking of people is not what
they're already doing it'sit's
ultimately it's something more it's
something above and beyond what they're
already doing on their own YouTube
channel etc yeah that's actually I'm
glad you brought that up because I kind
of got ahead of myself I'd like written
out a whole template of an a series of
questions that I wanted to ask before
ostensibly putting my foot in my mouth
um the there's there's two parts of that
the first is you're absolutely right
that were a group of individuals who are
just happily making videos and and doing
their thing and get together I think
there would need to be some kind of
system that that was rewarding whether
it was you know more aggressive cross
promotion of e-books or just simply more
exposure that that provides people with
more subscribers and more views from a
strictly financial perspective which I
understand is a lot of people's if not
primary at least secondary concern and
rightfully so I think that would have to
be extremely important and extremely
transparently like part of the
transaction that we understand that that
as much as this is activism you have to
balance it against the other concerns in
your life um but the other thing is is I
I don't think it would be a good idea to
have just an unmitigated a kind of
pure Athens style democracy where it is
just a group of people any one of which
can just say whatever they want I think
there would need to be a degree of
internal governance what I don't want to
do as someone on the outside is try to
suggest what that should be I mean I
think we've seen I don't want to rehash
this but like we've seen that kind of
the organic leadership structure that
existed with the raw till 4 movement and
kind of have that stuffed a lot of the
oxygen out of the room when there's a
failure of leadership it can become
really jarring for a lot of people um
because it's you know it's it's
personality based leadership it's kind
of the charismatic leadership um so I
think you're right and I'm interested to
know how you think some kind of
structure could be put into place that
provides what is an unequal distribution
of power but also a genuine and
transparent distribution of benefits
well I mean you know ultimately this
comes down to money and I'm one of the
few people whose want enough to say that
to you Buddhism in Southeast Asia you
know Thailand Laos Cambodia my part
Southeast Asia the single easiest form
of fundraising to do is building a new
roof on top of a Buddhist monastery why
is that because it is actually a hundred
percent transparent everyone in the
village sees the roof being built most
of them can know if they want to know
they can find out how much the materials
cost because within a village and Laos
or something you know a guy will come
and sell the shingles sell the wood
whatever you saw the gold if there are
some gold elements or what have you
everyone will know everyone will see it
being built if for some reason you know
construction is delayed everyone sees
that it's it's literally exterior it's
it's it's every stage of the process is
visible and you know there are other
things within within tera vaada Buddhism
the donors are in some ways kg but I
mean donating food to the children
living as residents
within a Buddhist monastery again even
in poverty-stricken areas you have no
problem doing that fundraising it's a
hundred percent transparent on a
day-to-day basis the villagers see where
the food goes they see it being eaten
they know it's not being you know
they're not nobody's stockpiling this
wealth and taking it off for some other
purpose where you have a hundred percent
transparency in Buddhism you have a
remarkable capacity for fundraising even
in the midst of dire poverty because I
have been open areas that are in
technically extreme poverty now remember
my my boss on my shitty humanitarian
project we were we were technically
helping people avoid starving to death
the myths it's real humanitarian work in
a way but it's also a joke in some ways
and I remember him complaining to me he
said oh you know I don't get it I mean
you know these these Buddhist groups
they manage to do so much fundraising in
these same villages these impoverished
area villages I don't see why our
project can't okay it's like the same
way and I looked him straight in the eye
and I said you want to know the answer
the problem is you you you cannot ask
these villagers to donate money to a
foundation that pays your salary your
salary alone is so enormous and not
transparent and what you do with that
money compared to you know the few
shekels these people can put together
the contrast in terms of transparency
accountability responsiveness to
building the roof on that temple is
extreme now I myself am already in this
ridiculous situation I raise six
thousand five hundred dollars in less
than 48 hours I think it was just over
24 hours but I don't know exactly
unbelievable I I did not expect that at
all I did not expect to raise 6005 and
US dollars in one day so amazing once
that money is raised we're already in a
situation of total inequality I have all
the money I make the decisions nobody
can tell me anything and that is
generally the way almost all foundations
and charities start is with a situation
of basically 00 transparency 0
accountability total total inequality
and
asian making with these types of
foundations the lesson I'm drawing here
from Buddhism or from other examples i
could use is actually the the diametric
opposite to what peter singer likes to
say about this so Peter singers a vegan
who talks about how charities organized
but I don't think he has real experience
in impact evaluation which is an aspect
of political science that pertains to
charity and in jail work actually the
easiest form of fundraising to do is
project specific so it's exactly what
Peter Singer says we shouldn't be doing
it is for example when Aaron janeth
wanted to save the life of one zebra why
did that raise so much money so quickly
why was it so effective in terms of
fundraising well it wasn't effective in
terms the final outcomes for unrelated
reasons because like the roof of that
temple everyone knows exactly where the
money is going and everyone gets to see
it it's visible now by contrast what if
I start a foundation that is much more
vaguely hug be to help the zebras where
does the money go well I want you to pay
my salary so I can be full time I want
you to pay administrative costs and then
we're going to do public education and
lobbying and you know there are zebras
here in Canada there are zebras in
Africa there are zebras in some zoos in
China we're going to go around do some
stuff this has gotten too vague already
right the the generalized concepts of
helping the Zebras is much harder to
justify it's much harder to be
transparent and accountable than helping
one zebra at one time now the great
thing about the Internet is that it
doesn't have to be an either/or is that
we can do both simultaneously the great
thing about the Internet is we could
easily have a foundation like petta just
to keep the same example or like Mothers
Against Drunk Driving my favorite
example we can have a Mothers Against
Drunk Driving type foundation for
veganism but then the same time at any
given moment we can say hey we want to
help this one zebra we want to do
something like this which is totally
transparent where exactly where the
money is going you're going to see et
cetera and the great thing is when you
do both each one increases
the credibility of the other it's not
detrimental the credibility it deepens
your relationship with your constituency
it deepens the trust and so when you can
show results like that transparently it
will make people have a greater sense of
trust and engagement with what you may
be doing that's that's invisible or what
have you so just one last thing on that
I guess the opposite extreme is musial
adji because you know I've worked in
museums a friend of mine outside of the
job once asked me to do a cost estimate
for a specific museum exhibit and I did
it you know so gratis because I had
access to databases and what have you
and this friend of mine was shocked was
horrified because I fret that lets say
the estimate was 35 million dollars and
said how can it possibly be 35 million
dollars that's ridiculous and I said
I'll tell you exactly how i made the
estimate i went through a database of
other museum projects that match certain
criteria same size same geographies and
whatever and then i took an average of
those so you know if you don't like it
[ __ ] you you know yeah don't worry about
it it's part of the part of the part of
the ambience no but you know and and she
wrote back wanting an itemized list of
where the money goes which is totally
reasonable I understand it's like what
what do you mean if this is gonna be 35
million dollars where does the museum
spend $35 how does it how does it
disappear and you know the honest answer
I gave because this of course this
wasn't professional I said this was just
doing a favor for a friend I said the
honest answer is you will never know
like not even the government knows not
even the CIA know there are some types
of institutional spending once you get
over a certain scale where all you can
say is this is how much money is likely
to disappear and there's really no
accountability there's no transparency
what have you so that's my opposite
extreme to the the Buddhist temple in
the small village
yeah that's that that's depressing say
it it's depressing it's well it's it's
actually something that I've seen echoed
in the environmental movement and
actually I think I'm not just
environmental I think one of the things
that's most interesting I don't know if
you've been following like American
electoral politics particularly closely
um but this is the big struggle that
people are facing now um with the end of
the Bernie Sanders campaign because it
was really easy to convince a lot of
people to give money to a specific thing
we're going to give it to a campaign
that will get this person and even if
they didn't know where the individual
dollars were being spent like there is a
very clear goal there is a very clear
objective and now we're in a situation
where and you can see this happening
online there's already fracturing and
people are receding into their corners
about oh it's about money in politics or
oh no it's about financial regulation
that when you have people who are
relatively what like minded um and are
pursuing specific goals it's
phenomenally easy to get them together
but to just kind of have this sort of
this this group of people that doesn't
have any momentum that's just like oh
we're doing things it it doesn't hold
together and I mean you saw that with
occupy occupy was huge and then it
didn't really have a concrete ask and
then it dissipated and that's why you
can see especially now black lives
matter have kind of responded to some of
that outside criticism and recently
released a specific list of asks and and
I think that point is extremely well
taken but but part of that I think is as
it applies to veganism is that there are
such specific things that we can be
pursuing that as far as I can tell just
no one except maybe you and a few others
are talking about and these things
aren't on the table um and and my
concern is just
we need to put them on the table well
look we're passing the one hour mark so
I think we should wrap it up for this
conversation but you know I think that
the the negative examples to learn from
are probably the agricultural examples
you in the u.s. especially in the United
States have really colorful examples of
hippie groups political groups some of
them left-wing groups some of them most
of them religious groups starting small
farms then you know often there's kind
of an initial period of optimism and
then look what happens 20 years later I
mean any of the groups that started in
the 1960s or what have you whether they
were independent communes but many of
them interested in ecology deep ecology
in organic farming or what have you and
there are certainly some groups doing
that for veganism some of them promoting
themselves on the internet and so on too
so you can find them to me to be blunt I
think that's the ultimate failure it's
the ultimate case of wasted potential
even though I personally am strongly
biased in favor of that form of activism
on an emotional level my early childhood
was on a farm when I was in Laos it was
deeply gratifying to me just to be in
fields of certain crops I know that's
ridiculous but it's sentimental and
emotional you know like I I like Deep
Ecology I like agriculture based
activism i I'm so biased in favor of
this but I think if you look at every
single one of those projects they're a
failure especially compared to the
amount of money and time and effort that
went into them and I think that even
looking at in the future even if you try
to draw up a list of lessons learned
there's there's no way to make a success
out of any of them or to take you know
to start again and reproduce it you know
why is that I don't know amino you could
make a whole list of all the factors a
farm obviously is stuck in one place
it's insular it relies on people making
enormous financial sacrifices like you
how would I ask you to quit your job as
a lawyer and come live on this organic
farm you know even if you to do that for
for three months or something is an
enormous oh you know so they're all
these
elements built into that that I think we
have to learn from uh because it is
romantic it is it is tremendously
appealing and we need to de romanticize
that and on the other hand you know your
your way of putting it there I think one
of the best organized protest movements
have seen in terms of having an ask as
you put it I actually don't use that
term but it's perfectly fine term having
organized set of demands i was in
england when there were street protests
calling for reforms to how university
tuition is charged and funded yes and
although the protests were often stupid
like in terms of what people said on the
street the leaders were not stupid and
they had a completely brilliant plan
that could be implemented very well
basically in a nutshell it would gear
the rate at which you repay your student
debt was linked to your income like like
income tax so after you graduated from
university if you got a high paying job
you could pay back your debt in
installments a certain percentage of
your income would be deducted to pay it
but if you ended up unemployed or
working at starbucks it would be a very
very low percentage or zero you know
there'd be a threshold where you're
earning so little and that this would
open up the way so that people could
study poetry and go on to work at
starbucks without being crippled by that
they're just very gradually repay the
debt and someone else could study
banking and get a high salary or what
have you this would fundamentally change
the economics from the individuals
perspective of higher education in
England brilliant actually souls that
were actually constructive actually
legislation that hits us all the
problems however that movement was a
total failure it ended um you know it
fizzled out the same way you could say
Occupy Wall Street fizzled out or what
have you and nothing so it's interesting
you know my own video that I keep
uploading again and again in new
languages on community this is I guess
in a sense why I put this emphasis on
from the cradle to the grave I think one
of the things that's stupid about the
commune about the agricultural base the
the organic farm based activism is that
you're not thinking about cradle to the
grave no I can do this for
months and it may be a waste of my time
and a waste of my money yes I can do a
few months but no no I want the whole I
want to think about the whole life cycle
I want to think about my own university
education my daughter's university
education wanna think about my
retirement can I retire on that farm
know what happens to you in a note no I
mean seriously a real toy real problem
are you so what if I what if i spend 10
years in your commune then what happens
to me you know you know I I want to
think about every stage and of the form
of activism or form community
organization being meaningful for
parents who have kids for the kids
themselves for the educational period
and so on at the end and likewise I mean
even the kind of best examples of those
street protests and I do think that that
movement in England is a kind of best
case in some ways they actually
assaulted the Prince of Wales and one of
their protests so big yeah there with
that car I think that happened in my
town that was in Cambridge don't forget
but I was in Cambridge when that was
covered them anyway so the Prince of
Wales and his consort I don't know she's
his wife I guess she's his wife now you
know they they were assaulted by
protesters and the photographs were
somewhat hilarious um anyway I'm against
violence though people let me reiterate
but you know again as as good as that
was as meaningful and important as that
protest wasn't as good as the ask was
good at said of demands were okay five
years later where are we know where you
know not only did it did it lack a
lifecycle vision obviously the horizons
for that whole thing were incredibly
short term it could only last a couple
of months and then and then fizzle out
okay do you have any closing thoughts
because I say we're well over an hour
here it's great to talk to you it's
great to talk to anyone who's you know
sincerely interested in in vegan
activism I really I really do appreciate
you taking the time it's also profoundly
weird because you've always just been
like a guy on the other side of the
screen but I just I just was wondering
what your advice would be regarding
contacting other vegan youtubers because
it appears that sending like the
messages on YouTube is not an effective
way to get people's attention um but I'm
i want to just at this point the initial
stages i want to hear
people's opinions on what their needs
are what their thoughts are because I
think of my role in is if I can be so
arrogant as to even claim that I have a
role is um have you seen the Avengers
that the movie franchise I have but I'm
aware of the cultural phenomenon the
idea is I think of myself as in the
position of shield which is the
government organization that has no
interesting people but that reaches out
to all the people who do have
superpowers and and helps bring them
together that i'm not on youtube and I'm
not the person who can do the kinds of
things that I'm hoping to see happen but
I am at least tenacious and analytical
and detail-oriented and we'll take the
time to make however many phone call is
a 212 phone calls if I have to it's got
to be it's got to be the palpable reward
like I said before it's got to be that
structure and for you the palpable
reward you can already offer the part
you can start thinking about is simply
that you're in Washington DC now this is
going to sound like ridiculous example
but I use it because it's a zero-cost
example unlike providing elephants or
bears or even beaches or bikinis if you
could provide a walking tour of
Washington DC related to animal rights
legislation or something if you did a
walking to and obviously you could put
that on YouTube you could record it a
couple times and edit together the best
takes or whatever if you just had that
and a small number of activists or
people interested in veganism took this
walking tour with you where I mean
whatever you string together these okay
you walk to this point so this is
actually the point where you know the
decision made by the Nixon
administration on torturing monkeys to
death in laboratories was made etcetera
etcetera so that was actually Ronald
Reagan not exit Ronald Reagan Ronald
Reagan past our current animal rights
legislation our landmark it correctly
says the u.s. good old Ronald Reagan
unbelievably it was Reagan but you know
if you walk to the point where that
happened and do whatever like you know
and I don't even know how much condo
let's say there's only one hour of
content about that in Washington DC as
silly as that sounds that is a palpable
reward and it's a palpable reward for
the people who go there and take that
tour with you and you know i don't know
maybe there's something you can show
them in the National
cribes there you know something maybe
they you know you put together those
things it's a powerful reward for the
people who come to your YouTube channel
it shows who you are and you're to be
taken seriously but you you've got to
put out something like that and again
like I say the role of the magazine
editor why does the magazine editor have
power and influence you know why are
people willing to work harder for a
magazine editor than they're willing to
work in writing an email or even in
recording a youtube video because most
people just put disorganized crap on on
YouTube you know to actually make a well
well written essay or book chapter what
have you ultimately there there has to
be that that palpable ward okay great
talking you this is our first time
meeting I'm sure you know what we'll
talk again and I expect to return to
Canada during the month of December
currently I will probably return via
Europe and I do hope to be doing real
world activism real world organization
in canada and i do not know where really
i'll be living in Canada but quite
likely across the board the United
States and try to start meeting other
vegan activists both YouTube activists
and real-world activists you know from
my own long-term future okay great i can
you Steven goodbye